
# Brew-master

A small project that I am using to learn how to develop with web apps Java on the backend using Spring Boot, Hibernate, and MySQL. Frontend will likely end up being made with some modern JS framework. \
 \
Ideally, this project will serve as the backend for a future web applications that will allow users to review the craft beers that they drink, and view data coming from other users. As I learn more, things will definitely change.

## Current Project Status
* See API Endpoints table below for current API functionality
* Must have gradle installed. Must have JDK 1.8 or newer. Enter command `./gradlew bootRun` from project directory to run.
* Postman helps. Currently GET's can only be performed by encoded URL.

## API Endpoints
<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name/path</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Description</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Method</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Input</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Output</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>/brewdata/addbeer
   </td>
   <td>Add a beer + data to table
   </td>
   <td>POST
   </td>
   <td>id (autogenerated), name(String), type(String), brewery(String), abv(double), description(String)
   </td>
   <td>success
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>/brewdata/removebeer
   </td>
   <td>Remove a beer
   </td>
   <td>DELETE
   </td>
   <td>id
   </td>
   <td>success
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>/brewdata/all
   </td>
   <td>Display all Beer objects
   </td>
   <td>GET
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>All data from beer tables
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>/brewdata/oneBeer
   </td>
   <td>Display single beer
   </td>
   <td>GET
   </td>
   <td>id
   </td>
   <td>Row of data from beer table corresponding to id
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>/brewdata/getbyname
    </td>
    <td>Get a beer by its name.
    </td>
    <td>GET
    </td>
    <td>name
    </td>
    <td>Returns Beer object corresponding to queried name. Returns null if does not exist.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>/brewdata/getbytype
     </td>
     <td>Get beers by type.
     </td>
     <td>GET
     </td>
     <td>type
     </td>
     <td>Returns list of Beer objects corresponding to queried type. Returns empty list if none exist.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>/brewdata/getbybrewery
     </td>
     <td>Get beers by brewery.
     </td>
     <td>GET
     </td>
     <td>brewery
     </td>
     <td>Returns list of Beer objects corresponding to queried brewery. Returns empty list if none exist.
     </td>
    </tr>
</table>



## Use Cases / User Stories

* As a contributor to this database, I want to share the info on my beer to a database to be collected and used in the future.
 
* As a contributor to this database, I want to remove OR edit beer info that I have posted in the past in the case that I have made mistakes.

* As a user, I want to view some data about a beer that has been added, OR view all data about all beers that have been added.

* As a user, I want to see all beers of a specified type or all beers from a specified brewery.

## Database Structuring

A simple and singular table is being used for the time being. See and comment on it here, if you'd like:

[https://www.lucidchart.com/invitations/accept/89696129-e248-4da1-b637-35974e5de461](https://www.lucidchart.com/invitations/accept/89696129-e248-4da1-b637-35974e5de461)




### More to come...
